Networking Day 2: 

Sockets: 

    Stream Sockets - Connection oriented and sequenced; methods for connection establishment and tear-down. Used with TCP, SCTP, and Bluetooth.

    Datagram Sockets - Connectionless; designed for quickly sending and receiving data. Used with UDP.

    Raw Sockets - Direct sending and receiving of IP packets without automatic protocol-specific formatting.

User space vs kernel space:

    User Space Sockets

        Stream Sockets

        Datagram Sockets

    Kernel Space Sockets

        Raw Sockets

Socket Creation and Privilege Level:

    User Space Sockets - The most common sockets that do not require elevated privileges to perform actions on behalf of user applications.

    Kernel Space Sockets - Attempts to access hardware directly on behalf of a user application to either prevent encapsulation/decapsulation or to create packets from scratch, which requires elevated privileges.

Well known Ports: 0-1023






Network Programming with Python3

    Network sockets primarily use the Python3 Socket library and socket.socket function.

import socket
  s = socket.socket(socket.FAMILY, socket.TYPE, socket.PROTOCOL)
  
  The socket.socket Function

    Inside the socket.socket. function, you have these arguments, in order:

socket.socket([*family*[,*type*[*proto*]]])

    family constants should be: AF_INET (default), AF_INET6, AF_UNIX

    type constants should be: SOCK_STREAM (default), SOCK_DGRAM, SOCK_RAW

    proto constants should be: 0 (default), IPPROTO_RAW


Raw IPv4 sockets: 

Raw Socket scripts must include the IP header and the next headers.

Requires guidance from the "Request for Comments" (RFC)to follow header structure properly.

    RFCs contain technical and organizational documents about the Internet, including specifications and policy documents.

See RFC 791, Section 3 - Specification for details on how to construct an IPv4 header

Raw socket use case: 


    Testing specific defense mechanisms - such as triggering and IDS for an effect, or filtering

    Avoiding defense mechanisms

    Obfuscating data during transfer

    Manually crafting a packet with the chosen data in header fields

i dont even know bruh










    
  
